we're going to make proper real well
flavored gravy after roasting a joint
what you've got in your roasting tin is
juices and fats the first thing you need
to do is spoon off any excess fat into a
bowl
and then you can see the juices there
quite clearly separating from the fat
and what I need to do is leave about one
tablespoon of fat left because that's
important because it's really the same
as making a sauce you got the fat there
and then you add flour which we'll do
now I'm going to use a rounded take the
spoon of flour and then just start to
mix the flour into the meat juices now
you'll see there is a little bit of a
the remains of an onion there and that's
been roasting with the meats and it
gives a lovely caramel color to the
gravy and also adds some flavor you can
strain it out after you've made the
gravy so what I've done now is exactly
what I did when we made the classic
bechamel sauce is I've mixed flour with
fat and the next thing I'm going to do
is add some liquid and the liquid I'm
using is stock and this is stock from
potatoes I've cooked potatoes blanched
them because I'm roasting potatoes now
you can use any kind of vegetable stock
carrots you can use a bit of whatever
you've got the only one not to use is
parsnip because that's a little bit
sweet and you go on adding the liquid
until you get the consistency that you
like some people like it thicker and
some people like it thinner and it's
what you like in your household and all
the time you're doing this what you need
to do is scrape the spoon around the
edges because you want all those lovely
little crusty flavored bits now we'll
have a little bit more stock here then
we'll turn the heat up because we want
it now to come to simmering point and at
this stage you can switch to a whisk
and then when it comes to the boil
you'll know what the thickness is and
what you can do here is do a little bit
of tasting add some salt add some
freshly milled pepper and then if you're
serving lamb you could add a little bit
of red currant jelly you can add a bit
of mustard in with the flour if it's
beef you can add your own little
embellishments but that is proper gravy
long-live proper gravy
and if you're serving roast lamb
particularly in the winter another
lovely source to serve as a creamy onion
sauce flavored with rosemary simply brew
some rosemary sprigs with a pestle and
mortar then chop them very finely and
add two onions that have been softened
in butter then add the flour and
gradually add the milk as before and
finish with some seasoning and a little
bit of creme fraiche
so that's it here's two more flower
power for everyone
you